here is there one thing that you think
is responsible for that of several
things because 70% is pretty good now I
it's a you know I I have been lecturing
they have All Hands meetings at Amazon
and for 20 years ever since we've been
about 21 years now in 1997 every at
almost every All Hands meeting I said
look when the stock is up 30% in a month
don't feel 30% smarter because when the
stock is down 30% in a month it's not
going to feel so good to be feel 30%
dumber and that's what happens you know
the great quote that Warren Buffett
brings up all the time but Benjamin
Graham said which is you know in the
short run the stock market is a voting
machine in the long run it's a weighing
machine and what you need to do is
operate your company in such a way
knowing that it will be waved one day
and just let it be weighed and never
spend any time thinking about the daily
stock price I don't okay so as a result
of going up seventy percent this year
you have become the wealthiest man in
the world it is that a title that you
really wanted or not I is it I can
assure you I have never sought that
title and it was fine being the second
wealthiest person in the world that
actually worked fine and it's not
it isn't a it I I would say people it's
something people naturally are curious
about you know it's the kind of
interesting curiosity but it's not the
thing I would much rather if they said
like I'm you know inventor Jeff Bezos or
entrepreneur Jeff Bezos or you know
father Jeff Bezos those kinds of things
are much more meaningful to me and the
you know the it's an output measure that
if you look at the financial success of
Amazon and the the stock I own 16
percent of Amazon and Amazon is worth
roughly a trillion dollars that means
that what we have built over 20 years we
have built eight hundred and forty
billion dollars of wealth for other
people and that's really what we've
that's
from a financial point of view that's
what we've done we've built eight
hundred and forty billion dollars of
wealth for other people and that's great
that's how it should be you know they're
I believe so powerfully in the ability
of entrepreneurial capitalism and free
markets to solve so many of the world's
problems not all of them but so many of
them so you live in Washington State
near in Seattle where outside of Seattle
now the man who was the richest man for
about 20 years his name Bill Gates yeah
and what is the likelihood that the two
richest men in the world live not only
in the same country not only the same
state not only the same city but in the
same neighborhood I mean is there
something in that neighborhood that we
should know about and are there are
there any more houses for sale
thereafter right after I saw Bill not
not too long ago I you know we were
joking about the world's richest man
thing and I basically said thank you no
I said you're welcome and he immediately
turned to me and said thank you but no
Medina is a great little it's a suburb
of Seattle and you know I don't think
there's anything special in the water
there and you know I did locate Amazon
in Seattle because of Microsoft I
thought that that big pool of technical
talent would provide a good place to
recruit talented people from and that
did turn out to be true
so it's not a complete coincidence
there's some correlation there but when
you are the richest man in the world you
go into a store when you want to buy
something do you have to put a credit
card down you just say I'm Jeff Bezos
and they send you this the how do you
about that and you have to care you
carry cash around you you can yeah I do
carry cash and I have I have credit
cards yeah and if your credit I have to
show my driver's license and you know
but have you ever had a credit card ID
no I have I've had my credit card denied
so what do you say when you say don't
you know if I give him another credit
card I'd say here try this one
so earlier today you made an
announcement that is the most
significant philanthropic gift you've
made in the pipe it was a
about about a year ago you said you were
wanted to look for some good
philanthropic ideas and you got I think
47,000 of them and you yeah reviewed
them and how did you decide where to put
this two billion dollars and would you
describe exactly what you're gonna well
that process was very helpful so I I
solicited ideas a kind of crowd-sourced
and I got literally as you said
something like 47,000 maybe even a
little more someone came to my inbox
most of them came on social media and I
read through thousands and thousands of
them my office kind of correlated them
all and put them into buckets and there
were some themes that emerged but the
other thing that's fascinating about the
kind of exercises you see just how long
tailed it is people are interested in
trying to help the world in so many
different ways and you it's all the
things you would expect you know it's
but but but also some more unusual
things but it's you know some people are
greatest in the arts and opera and they
think that's underfunded and so a lot of
people are interested in medicine and
particular diseases and think that those
deserve more Rd dollars all these things
are correct a lot of people are very
interested in homelessness including me
a lot of people are very interested in
education and of all kinds all kinds of
interesting of both kind of college
scholarship type education but also
apprenticeship program so you name it
and people are interested in education
I'm very interested in early education
and I made them you know the apple
doesn't fall far from the tree my mother
has become in running the basis Family
Foundation she has become an expert in
in early education I'm a student of
Montessori schools
I started at Montessori when I was two
years old and the teacher complained to
my mother the Montessori School teacher
complain to my mother that I was too
task-focused in that she couldn't get me
to switch tasks so she would have to
just pick up my chair and move me and by
the way I think that's if you ask the
people who work with me it's still
probably true teacher ever call you
since and say that she was responsible
for your success
oh no I'm in touch with several of my
high school elementary school teachers
though but I don't know any of my
Montessori School teachers so the gift
that you're giving essentially that
you're gonna have some for preschool for
children who need preschool for Eitri
yeah well full tuition preschool
Montessori inspired I'm very excited
about that because I'm gonna operate
that that's gonna be an operating
nonprofit I'm gonna hire an executive
team there's gonna be leadership team
we're gonna operate these schools and
we're gonna put them in low-income
neighborhoods it's just there's no doubt
we know for a fact that if a kid falls
behind it's really really hard to catch
up and if you can give somebody a leg up
when there are two three or four years
old by the time they get to kindergarten
or first grade they're much less likely
to fall behind
you can still happen but you've really
improved their odds and a lot of in you
know and you know most probably most
people in this room have been very
mindful about making sure that their
kids got very good preschool education
and you know got that kind of Head Start
that Head Start compounds fantastically
if you can get that you know starting at
age two three four that's there's a
powerful compounding effect there so
it's highly levered that's all that
really means you know that you can the
money spent there is going to pay
gigantic dividends for decades so and
the other part of your gift will be to
give rewards out to yes and that's going
to be more traditional grant-making
philanthropy so there I'm gonna identify
with the help of a team I'm gonna
identify that we're gonna hire be a full
time team identify and fund that and
fund family homeless shelters and that
will be you said you would give an
initial two billion dollars I expect to
add to that
yeah it's day one everything I've ever
done has started small Amazon started
with a couple of people and Blue Origin
started with five people and the budget
of Lords was very very small
now the budget of origin has approaches
a billion dollars a year and next year
will be more than a billion dollars so
in Amazon who literally was ten people
today it's half a million people but you
you it's hard to remember for you guys
but for me it's like yesterday I was
driving the packages to the post office
myself and hoping one day we could
afford a forklift and so but so for me
I've seen small things get big and it's
part of this day one mentality I like
treating things as if if they're small
you know Amazon even though it is a
large company I want it to have the
heart and spirit of a small one and then
so anyway that the day one foundation is
going to be like that will will will
will wander a little bit too so I we
have some very specific ideas what we
want to do but I believe in the power of
wandering all of my best decisions in
business and in life have been made with
heart intuition guts you know not not an
analysis when you can make a decision
with analysis you should do so but it
turns out in life that your most
important decisions are always made with
instinct intuition taste heart and
that's what we'll do with this day one
foundation - it's part of that day one
mentality as we go about you know
building out this network of nonprofit
schools we will will learn new things
and we'll figure out how to make it
better so one of the decisions that you
are doing by the customer is going to be
the child this is this is so important
because that is it the secret sauce of
Amazon where there several principles at
Amazon but the number one thing that has
made us successful by far is
obsessive-compulsive focus on the
customer as opposed to obsession over
the competitor and I talk so often to
other CEOs and some other CEOs and also
founders and entrepreneurs and I can
tell that even though they're talking
about customers they're really focusing
on competitors and it is a huge
to any company if you can stay focused
on your customer instead of your
competitors so then you have to identify
who is your customer so at the
Washington Post for example is the
customer the people who buy
advertisements from us know the customer
is the reader full stop with the
customer is the reader and then by the
way where do advertisers want to be
advertisers want to be where there are
readers so it's really not that
complicated you know it's sort of it
comes around really well and in the
school who are the customers is it the
parents is that the teachers no it is
the child and that's what we're going to
do we're gonna be obsessively
compulsively focused on the child we're
going to be scientific when we can be
and we're gonna use heart and intuition
when we when we want to when you use
your intuition make decisions where is
the intuition leading you now on your
second headquarters
[Laughter]
can can we just take a moment to
acknowledge that that may be the best
segue into history of interviewing
seriously David so that is that is all
right that's amazing
answer is the answer is very simple we
we will announce the decision before the
end of this year
so we've made tremendous progress the
team is working their butts off on it
and we will get there
no no hey be nice come on but you know
you already have something in one
Washington and what about another
Washington area you got yeah no that's
right we in in Seattle we call this the
other Washington okay this is so
speaking of Washington you bought a few
years ago as you mentioned the
Washington Post why did you buy the
Washington Post you had no background in
that area what convinced you to do that
okay first of all I was not looking for
a newspaper I had no intention of buying
newspaper I had never thought about the
idea had never occurred to me it was
never something wasn't like a childhood
dream no nothing and my friend Don
Graham who at that time I had known 15
years I know him 20 years now he
approached me through an intermediary
and wanted to know if I would be
interested in buying the Washington Post
and I sent back word that I would not
because I didn't really know anything
about newspapers and Dawn over a series
of conversations convinced me that I
thought was unimportant because we had
inside the Washington Post we have so
much talent that understands newspapers
that wasn't what the problem was but
they needed was somebody who had an
understanding of the Internet and so so
that was the first thing that's kind of
how it got started and then I so I did
some soul-searching and again my
decision-making process something this
would definitely be intuition and not
analysis the the financial situation of
the Washington Post at that time this is
2013 was very upside down and it's a
fixed cost business and they had lost a
lot of revenue
over the previous five or six years not
through any fault of the people working
there or of the leadership team all of
the paper had been managed very very
well the problem was a secular one the
internet was just a roading all of the
traditional advantages that local
newspapers had all of them I mean that
was just taking away every gift that the
local newspaper had was kind of
systematically removed by the internet
and so that's why you see this it's a
it's a it's a it's a profound problem
across local newspapers all around the
country and in fact the world and so so
I had to do some soul-searching and I
said you know is this something I want
to get involved in if I'm gonna do it
I'm gonna put some heart into it and
some work into it and I decided I would
only do that if I really believed it was
an important institution and I said to
myself if this were a financially
upside-down salty snack food company the
answer would be no and but but it was
very soon as I started thinking about
that way I was like this is this is an
important institution it's really it is
the newspaper in the capital city of the
most important country in the world the
Washington Post has an incredibly
important role to play in this democracy
there's just no doubt in my mind about
and so as soon as I had passed through
that gate I only had one more gate that
I had to go through before telling dawn
yes and that was I wanted to look myself
you know be really open with myself and
look in a mirror and sort of think about
the company and be sure that I was
optimistic that it could work because
you know if it were hopeless that would
also be and not something I would get
involved in and I looked at that and I
was super optimistic and it needed to be
transitioned to a national and a global
publication there's one gift that the
internet brings newspapers it destroys
almost everything that brings one gift
and that is free global distribution in
the old days of paper newspapers you
would have to build printing plants
everywhere and your logistics operations
to have a truly global newspaper or even
a really international newspapers super
expensive heavy capex investments that's
why so few papers actually became
national or global now we're not really
no global ones to speak of depending on
how you what you count and so but today
with the internet you get that gift of
free distribution so we had to take
advantage of that gift and that's the
that was the basic strategy we had to
switch from a business model where we
made a lot of money per reader with a
relatively small number of readers to a
little bit tiny bit of money per reader
on a very large number of readers and
that's the transition that we did last
night the I'm pleased to report to you
that the post is profitable today the
newsroom is growing it's been growing
every year since I've been there Marty
Baron who leads the newsroom is killing
it I think he's the best editor in the
newspaper business
we have Fred Ryan who is the publisher
Fred Hiatt at the editorial page they're
killing it shy lash our head of
Technology is a superstar so we are you
know that it's working and I'm so proud
of that team and I know for a fact when
I'm 80 or let's say I always project
myself forward to age 80 but as I get
older I'm starting to do 90 so I know
that when I'm 90 it's gonna be one of
the things I'm most proud of is that I
took on the Washington Post and helped
them through
very rough transition so when you when
you agreed to buy it
I think the asking price was 250 million
dollars you didn't ago she a you know
hip done I asked him how much he wanted
he said 250 I said fine it didn't
negotiate with him and I did no due
diligence and he I wouldn't need to it
done heat I have something I'd like to
sell I I had you know Don told me every
warts and pimple and he told me all the
things that were great and every single
thing he told me on both sides of that
ledger turned out to be true ok so now
that you own the Washington Post
sometimes there are some people who
criticize some things that the
Washington Post says and you've been
remarkably quiet
I have no idea what you're talking about
well you've been remarkably quiet in not
defending yourself well I do defend the
post and so I don't I don't I don't feel
the need to defend Amazon but but I do I
will say this it is a mistake for any
elected official in my opinion I don't
think this is a very out-there opinion
to attack media and journalists I
believe that it is an essential
component of our democracy there has
never been I was gonna say never been an
elected official who liked their
headlines I think there's probably a no
no public figure who has ever liked
their headlines it's okay it's part of
the process you know it's it's if you're
the president the United States or a
governor of a state or whatever you you
don't take that job thinking you're not
going to get scrutinized you're gonna
get scrutinized and it's it's it's
healthy and somebody very you know what
what what what the president should say
is this is right this is good I'm glad
I'm being scrutinized and that would be
so secure and confident but it's really
dangerous to demonize the media
it's dangerous to call the media
lowlifes it's dangerous to say that
they're the enemy of the people we live
in a society where it's not just the
laws of the land
that protect us we do have freedom of
press it's in the Constitution we but
what we but it's also that social norms
that protect us those we we it works
because we believe those words on that
piece of paper and every time you attack
that you're eroding it a little bit
around the edges now look I don't want
to be dramatic here we are so robust in
this country the media is going to be
fine we're going to push through this
and by the way Marty Baron would tell
you this is a super important point he
will always say he'd meet when he meets
with the newsroom I've heard him say
many times I say it myself when I meet
with journalists at the Washington Post
we Marty says we are the the
administration may be at war with us we
are not at war with the administration
just do the work just do the work that's
Marty's finish so we have I didn't
mention the president but you mentioned
the president so since you mentioned the
president have you met the president he
was a lawyer wasn't it right so you've
met the president on a couple occasions
and yeah talk to him very much as he
call you in for lunch or dinner and not
that much well I'll keep my
conversations with the president to
myself but yes I've had a couple of
conversations with him and this doesn't
make you think you want the job yourself
though right it's not a job you would
ever aspire to are you asking me if I
would run for president yes I'll be your
VP you run you run well no I think you'd
be better candidate but yeah let's talk
about how you came to the situation
where you are today so you grew up in
Texas initially yes I was born in
Albuquerque all right as a but I left
when I was three or four and I moved to
Texas he moved to Texas and from early
age were you a pretty smart student and
your teachers tell you this you know you
were good or I have always been
academically smart and that you know by
the way the older I get I realized how
many kinds of smart there are there are
a lot of kinds of smart there are a lot
of kinds of stupid too
but but there are you know I see people
all the time who I know they wouldn't
have gotten a pluses on you know their
calculus exams but they're but they're
incredibly smart but yes I was a very
good student right so you ultimately
moved into high school in Miami yes and
then you were valedictorian of your
class yes and then you gave a speech as
the valedictorian saying you thought we
should colonize space or something like
that I did it was 1982 I graduated from
high school in 1982 big public heights
of Miami Palmetto Senior High go
Panthers and there were 750 kids in my
graduating class and I loved high school
I had so much fun we had I lost my
library privileges because I laughed too
loudly in the library and what that
laughs where did you get that laughter
um you know it is distinctive I've had
that laugh all my life there was a short
not that sort there was a multi-year
period where my brother and sister would
not see a movie with me because they
thought it was too embarrassing and my
but I don't know why I have this laugh
it's just it's just and I laugh easily
and often the people who know me you
know yes my mom or anybody who knows me
well and they'll say if Jeff's unhappy
wait five minutes and I can't maintain
unhappiness I guess I have you know good
serious levels or something so you you
graduated as valedictorian you decided
to go to Princeton how come you decide
to go to Princeton because I wanted to
be a theoretical physicist and I so I
went to Princeton and I was a really
good student as I pointed out already I
got eight pluses on almost everything I
I had was in the honors honors physics
track which starts out with you know a
hundred students and by the time you get
to quantum mechanics it's like thirty so
I'm in quantum mechanics I think this is
like junior year and I've also been
taking a bunch of computer science
classes and electrical engineering
classes which I'm also enjoying and I I
can't solve this partial differential
equation it's really really hard and
I've been studying with my
roommate Joe who also was really good at
math and and the two of us worked on
this one homework problem for three
hours and got nowhere
and we finally said he looked up at each
other over the table at the same moment
we said yo Santa because yo Santa was
the smartest guy at Princeton and we
went to your saunas room and he was Sri
Lankan and in the Facebook which was an
actual paper book at that time there
were his name was three lines long
because I guess in Sri Lanka when you do
something good for the King they give
you an extra syllable on your name and
so he had a super long last name the
most humble wonderful guy and we show
him this problem and he looks at it he
stares at it for a while and he says
cosine and I'm like what do you mean
he's like that's the answer and I'm like
that's the answer and he's like yeah let
me show you so he brings us into his
room he sits us down
he writes out three pages of detailed
algebra everything crosses out and the
answer is cosine and I said listen yo
Santa
did you just do that in your head and
you said no that would be impossible
three years ago I solved a very similar
problem and I was able to map this
problem on to that problem and then it
was immediately obvious that the answer
was cosine and I that was an important
moment for me because that was at the
very moment when I realized I was never
going to be a great theoretical
physicist and so I started doing some
soul-searching others like that you know
that is a magic trick it's the people
who you know thirakkatha
in most occupations if you're in the
90th percentile or above you're gonna
contribute in theoretical physics you've
got to be like one of the top 50 people
in the world or you're really just not
helping out much you know your again and
so I was very clear that I like I saw
the writing on the wall and I changed my
major very quickly to electrical
engineering and computer graduated summa
laude I graduated summa laude
Phi Beta Kappa Phi Beta Kappa and then
you went into the highest calling of
mankind finance yes
I went I went to New York City and I
ended up working at a quantitative hedge
fund run by a brilliant man named David
Shaw de Shah & Co and I started there
when there were only 30 people when I
left there were about 300 and David is
still one of the most brilliant people
I've ever met I learned so much from him
I used a lot of his ideas and principles
on things like HR and recruiting and
what kind of people to hire when I
started a very very good well-known
hedge fund and you were a star there as
I understand what propelled you to say
I'm quitting this I'm gonna start a
company selling books over the internet
and I'm gonna do it from Seattle where'd
that idea come from I came across the
fact so this is 1994 nobody has heard of
the internet very very few people was
used at that time mostly by scientists
and physicists and things like that we
used it a little bit of Dietsch off or
some things but not much and
and and I came across the fact that the
web world wide web was growing at
something like twenty-three hundred
percent a year this is an i-94 and
anything growing that fast is even if
its baseline usage today is tiny it's
growing so fast it's gonna be big and so
I looked at that and I was like there's
got to be I should come up with a
business idea and they get you know on
the internet and then let the internet
go around this and we keep working on it
and so I made a list of products that I
might saw mine and I started forced
ranking them and I picked books because
books is super unusual in one respect
which is that there are more book items
in the book category than there are
items in the other category the three
million different books active and in
print around the world in the given time
so my my the founding idea of Amazon was
to build Universal selection of books
the biggest book stores only had 150,000
titles and so that's what I did and I
you know I hired a small team and we
built we built the software I moved to
Seattle
why'd you pick Seattle because of
Microsoft yeah it was two things the
largest book warehouse in the world at
that time was in nearby in a town called
Roseburg Oregon and then also the
recruiting pool that was available from
Microsoft and when you told your parents
you're gonna quit de sha where you're
successful making presumably a fair
amount of money yeah and you told your
wife McKenzie that you're gonna move
across the country what did they all say
they were immediately and reflexively
supportive right after they asked the
question what's the internet and so know
that but this is right you know you know
you with your loved ones you you you bet
on them you're not betting on the idea
you're you're you you are betting on the
person I told my when I told my boss
David Shaw that I was gonna do this
thing he went on a long walk with him in
Central Park and he said finally you
know after a lot of listening you know
what Jeff this is a really good idea I
think you're onto a good idea here but
this would be a better idea for somebody
who didn't already have a good job and
that actually made so much sense to me
and that he convinced me to think about
it for two days before making a final
decision and that was
that and it's one of those decisions I
made with my heart and not my head and I
basically said I don't want to regret I
don't when I'm 80 now 90 I have I want
to have minimized the number of regrets
that I have in my life and most of our
regrets are acts of omission they're
things we didn't try it's the path
untraveled those are the things that
haunt us well and so anyway I have one
of those that relates to this yeah you
know when you were trying to get the
bibliography of books and print to sell
you went to a company that my firm owned
Baker and Taylor acre and Taylor which
had started in 1839 never made a profit
since 1839 it was always break-even and
as I understand it the salesman was told
by you that you would give them a small
piece of the company you were starting
you'd have a lot of cash our salesmen
said no we don't want a piece of a
company we want some cash yeah so you
gave some cash and later when I heard
about this I flew out to see you yeah in
your ramshackle little office building
and I said you know I think that is like
1997 right this was a long time ago the
first time we met and so I said that
deal wasn't so good we'd like the piece
of the company whatever you were
thinking of giving us and you were
actually very gracious you didn't say
get out of here I don't need you anymore
you said look I don't really need you
frankly but you were helpful in the
beginning so we'll cut up the deal and
I'll give you a little piece of the
stock yeah and you did and that stock
today is worth about five billion
dollars
unfortunately we sold it right at the
IPO yeah so
but it's a testament to your character
that that doesn't bother you it does
bother me
[Applause]
I mentioned it every actually I think
about every day but I do remember when I
went out there and you had your desks
were labeled you had like doors where
yeah we still do and you were telling me
that you had to go deliver the books
yeah for the post office yourself I
still I don't still delivered but I was
doing that for years
and I said I was packing boxes I might
not know in my hands and knees them in
the first month I was packing boxes on
my hands and knees on the hard cement
floors and with somebody else didn't
standing next to me kneeling next to me
we're packing and and I said you know
what we need knee pads this is for
killing my knees and this guy packing
alongside me said we need packing tables
and I was like that's the most brilliant
idea I've ever heard and the next day I
went and bought packing tables and it
like doubled our productivity so where
did the name Amazon come from Earth's
biggest river Earth's biggest selection
okay that seems simple was that an easy
choice or were there other candidates
well the first name I named it Cadabra I
was I had music it's hard for you it's
really hard to impress upon you how
small this beginning was but when I was
driving to Seattle I wanted to hit the
ground running I wanted to have a
company incorporated and I wanted to
have bank accounts set up and so I
called a friend and and he recommended
his lawyer to me turned out this guy was
actually his divorce attorney
but his but this guy incorporated the
company for me and set up bank accounts
and said I need to know what name you
want the company to be for the
incorporation papers and I said this is
over the phone I said Cadabra like
abracadabra but I just sued Cadabra and
he said cadaver and I was like okay
that's not gonna work and but I like go
ahead with Cadabra for now and I'll
change it and so like three months later
I changed it
so what propelled you to sell things
more than books and obviously if you're
only selling books today you wouldn't be
the richest man in the world presumably
it's the idea that you were selling
other things when did you first get the
idea to sell other things we after books
we started selling music and then we
started selling videos and then I got
smart and I I emailed a thousand
randomly selected customers and asked
them besides the things we felt today
what would you like to see us sell and
that answer came back incredibly
long-tailed people said basically the
way they answered the question was with
whatever they were looking for at that
moment so like I member one of the
answers was I wish you've sold
windshield wiper blades
because I really need windshield wiper
blades and I thought to myself we can
sell anything this way and and then so
then we launched electronics and toys
and many other categories over time and
the vision became because you read the
original business plan it's just books
well 1997 you went public yeah and the
value of the company was under a billion
dollars and maybe six hundred million or
some three three three something I think
right that our IPO so and then went
underwater for a while right your stock
at one point I think went to $100 but
then it went down to six or something
like that at the peak of the internet
bubble our stock peaked some around a
hundred and thirteen dollars and then
after the internet bubble you know
busted open our stock went down to six
it went from a hundred and thirteen to
six in less than a year my annual
shareholder that year starts with a one
word sentence and that one word sentence
is the word ouch so most of those
internet companies of the dot-com era
are out of business
yeah you survived what was it that made
you to survive and virtually the rest of
them are gone well it's very the whole
period is very interesting because the
stock is not the company and the company
is not the stock and so as I watched the
stock fall from a hundred and thirteen
to six I was also watching all of our
internal business metrics number of
customers profit per unit
you know everything you can imagine
defects etc every single thing about the
business was getting better and fast and
so as the stock price was going the
wrong way
everything inside the company was going
the right way and I you know so I wasn't
we didn't need to go back to the capital
markets we didn't need more money the
only reason you know financial bust like
the internet bubble bursting is you know
makes it really hard to raise money but
you know we already had the money we
needed so we just needed to continue to
progress Wall Street kept saying well
Amazon's not making any money they're
just getting customers where the profits
where the profits and Wall Street kept
beating you up on that and your response
was I don't really care what you think
well I was on television with Tom Brokaw
he pulled together half-a-dozen internet
entrepreneurs from that era this is you
know in turn I think it's right before
the bubble burst maybe were right after
I camera but in that area and he was
interviewing all of us and he finally
turned to me and he said mr. Bezos can
you even spell profit and Tom by the way
Tom Brokaw is now one of my good friends
and but he's like can even spell profit
and I said it sure PR OPH et and he he
burst out laughing and and but look I
Amazon was you know people always accuse
us of selling dollar bills for ninety
cents and said look anybody can do that
and grow revenues that's not what we're
doing
we always had positive gross margins
it's a fixed cost business and so what I
could see is that from the internal
metrics is that what at a certain volume
level that we would cover our fixed
costs and the company would be
profitable so who came up with the idea
prime prime seems to be a great way to
get money in advance of people actually
getting the services yeah I'm sorry
actually it's very interesting so like
many inventions inside of a team and I
love team inventing is my favorite thing
so I tap-dance into the office I love
Amazon I have so much fun there I love
Blue Origin I love The Washington Post
but Amazon is my full-time job and I get
to invent I get to live two to three
years in the future and
most of the invention we do there is you
know if somebody has an idea and then
other people improve the idea and other
people come up with objections why I can
never work and then we solved those
objections and it's a very it's a very
fun process Prime there were a couple of
things one one of our board members
being Gordon always wanted us to have a
loyalty program and he every V would
bring this up every board meeting and he
you know and the loyalty programs that
we would think about were things like
frequent flyer miles which don't really
work in a business like Amazon in my
opinion there are a lot of reasons that
they work for Airlines but that's
different and there's structural
differences and the so we kept to think
but we're always wondering what could a
loyalty program be and then actually a
kind of a junior software engineer came
up with this idea not as a loyalty
program but this idea that we could
offer people kind of an all-you-can-eat
buffet of fast free shipping and when we
modeled that so then you know the
finance team went and modeled that idea
and that the results were horrifying
that we would offer unlimited shipping
shipping is expensive and that we would
and customers love free shipping so at
this point we already had something
called free Super Saver Shipping where
we would for in exchange for letting the
product go very slow to you and in
exchange for having a certain minimum or
threshold size then you could get free
shipping but this was going to be no
order threshold so you could buy you
know a single $20 item or a single $10
item and free two-day shipping and when
we modeled this it didn't look pretty
but we could see I mean again back to
that you have to use heart and intuition
there has to be risk-taking you have to
have instinct all the good decisions
have made that way you do it with a
group you do it with great humility
because by the way getting it wrong
isn't that bad that's the other thing
when when we make mistakes and we've
made
Dizzy's like the fire phone and many
other things that just didn't work out I
can I could we don't have enough time
for me to list all of our failed
experiments but the big winners pay for
thousands of failed experiments so you
try something like Prime and it was very
expensive at the beginning it cost us a
lot of money because what happens when
you offer a free all-you-can-eat buffet
who shows up to the buffet first the
heavy eaters it's scary it's like oh my
god did I really say as many prawns as
you can eat and and so that is what
happened but but surely we could see the
trend lines we can see that you know the
different all kinds of customers were
coming and they appreciated that service
that's what you have your team by the
way they're a feeder my answers are too
long your audience cut me off so I'm not
used to cutting off the richest man in
the world I'm not so so let me ask you
this you're killing me David when when
said that you sit around with your team
and so forth but you didn't like
meetings before 10:00 a.m.
no you'd like to get eight hours of
sleep I don't like powerpoints explain
all that why is that okay
many so I I like to putter in the room I
get up early I go to bed early I get up
early I like to putter in the mornings I
like to read the newspaper I like to
have coffee I like to have breakfast
with my kids before they go to school so
I have my kind of puttering time it's
very important to me and so that's why I
set my first meeting for 10 o'clock I
like to do my high IQ meetings before
lunch like anything that's going to be
really mentally challenging that's a 10
o'clock meeting and because by 5:00 p.m.
I'm like I can't think about that today
let's try this again tomorrow at 10:00
a.m. and and so then on sleep I get 8
hours of sleep I prioritize it unless
I'm traveling in different time zones
sometimes it's impossible but I am very
focused on it and
and therefore me I need a daughter
asleep I think better I have more energy
my mood is better all these things and
think about it as a senior executive
what do you really get paid to do as a
senior executive you get paid to make a
small number of high quality decisions
your your job is not to make thousands
of decisions every day so let's say that
I slept six hours a day well let's go
really crazy and say I slept four hours
a day
so now I just got four so-called
productive hours back so if I was going
to you know have say twelve hours of
productive time during any waking day
now all of a sudden I have 12 plus 4 I
have sixteen productive hours so I have
33% more time to make decisions so if I
was going to make you know a hundred
decisions now I can make 133 decisions
but if I did that arithmetic wrong I'm
sorry
and and so your make a hundred and
thirty three decisions is that really
worth it if the quality of this
decisions might be lower because you're
tired or grouchy or any number of things
now it's different if it's a startup
company I mean you know you're really
you know when Amazon was a hundred
people a different story but but
Amazon's not a startup company and all
of our senior executives operate the
same way I do they work in the future
they live in the future
none of the people who report to me
should really be focused on the current
quarter I always tell people sometimes I
get you know we'll have a good quarterly
conference call or something and and
Wall Street will like our quarterly
results and I'll get people will stop me
and say congratulations on your quarter
and I say thank you but what I'm really
thinking is that quarter was baked three
years ago i right now I'm working on a
quarter that's going to reveal itself in
2021 sometime and that's what you need
to be doing you need to be out sort of
you know two or three years in advance
and if you are and then why do I need to
make a hundred decisions today if I make
like three good decisions a day that's
enough and they should just be
as high-quality as I can make them
Warren Buffett says he's good if he
makes three good decisions a year and so
you know and I really believe that so I
care was like a triple compound question
right so you probably got at least time
let me ask you this okay who have
revolutionized retail and people buy so
many things over the internet people are
obsessed with buying things or by the
way when you buy over the Internet
Amazon do you ever get the wrong orders
anything ever wrong what do you do if
you call up and complain or you don't
have any problems oh I I'm I'm customer
of Amazon hopefully like all of you in
this there's no one person full Tyner
service you didn't even this room who is
not an Amazon customer see me right
afterwards and I'll walk you through it
it's m'm and I and I treat them like the
same way I treat a problem that I would
get from customer my email address is
famous and I keep it and then I read it
it's Jeff at amazon.com I don't see
every email that I get anymore because I
get too many but I see a lot of them and
I and I use my curiosity to pick out
certain emails I'll get one from a
customer and there's a defect you know
we've done something wrong that's the
usually people are riding us not always
but usually the writing is because we've
screwed up their order somehow and I am
so I look at this and for some reason
it's it's something seems a little odd
about that one and so off the team to do
a case study and and find real root
cause or causes it's usually causes real
root causes and then real root fixes so
that when you fix it you're not fixing
it for that one customer you're fixing
it for every customer and that process
is a gigantic part of what we do so I
would treat my if I have a failed order
or some bad customer experience I would
treat it just like that
oh you've revolutionized retail as I say
but now you were in the bricks and
mortar business you bought Whole Foods
yeah it was the theory behind buying
something that doesn't sell things over
the Internet
well there we're very interested in
physical stores and we have it I've been
asked for years we ever open physical
stores literally 20 years of an asset
question and I always say yes but only
when we have
a differentiated differentiated offering
something's not me too
because that space physical storage is
so well served if we offer a me-too
product offering it's not gonna work
we're and it's also just we're not very
good at that most of the whenever we've
tried dabbling in something that's a
me-too service we tend to get beaten it
doesn't work we're our culture is much
better at pioneering and inventing and
so we have to have something that's
different and that's what Amazon Go is
it's completely different the Amazon
bookstore completely different and we
have ideas about how to merge Prime and
Whole Foods to make that those are still
rolling out you haven't seen them yet
but to make to use Amazon Prime to make
Whole Foods a very differentiated
experience and continue to add
technology to that and what you know and
so basically Whole Foods
I love whenever I'm talking to Amazon
buys a lot of companies usually there's
much smaller than Whole Foods but we buy
a bunch of companies every year and I'm
always trying to assess what I meet with
the entrepreneur who founded the company
I'm always trying to figure out one
thing first and foremost is that person
a missionary or a mercenary and the
mercenaries are trying to flip their
stock the missionaries love their
product or their service and love their
customer and trying to build a great
service by the way the great paradox
here is that it's usually the
missionaries who make more money and you
can you can tell really quickly just by
talking to people and when I met John
Mackay who's the founder of Whole Foods
just it's a missionary company he's a
missionary guy and so what we're gonna
be able to do is take some of our
resources some of our technical
technological know-how and and expand
the Whole Foods mission they have a
great mission which is to bring
nourishing food to everybody organic
nourishing food to everybody
and but you know we have a lot to bring
to that table in terms of resources but
also in terms of operational excellence
and in terms of technology know-how now
one of the other companies you started
with in your company which is
technologically superior company is
Amazon Web Services where the idea come
from AWS has been
we started it I don't know a long time
ago now 15 years ago and and worked on
it behind the scenes for a long time and
then finally launched it it has become a
very large company and it at AWS we
completely reinvented the way that
companies by computation so
traditionally if you're a company and
you needed computation you would build a
data center and you'd fill that data
center with servers you'd have to
upgrade the operating systems of those
servers and keep everything running and
so on and so on none of that added any
value to what the business was doing it
was kind of price of admission
you know undifferentiated heavy lifting
and what we saw at Amazon is we were
doing that we were building data centers
for ourselves just like that what we saw
us there was tremendous waste of effort
between our applications engineers and
our networking engineers the ones who
run the data centers and they were they
were having to have lots of meetings and
planning fleet sizes and all these like
non-value-added tasks and we said look
what we can do is develop a set of
hardened api's that allow these two
groups the applications engineers and
the networking engineers to have roadmap
meetings instead of these fine-grained
meetings and then we'll expose those
api's to the applications engineers and
they can just take as much compute
resources they want well and as soon as
we hatched that plan it became
immediately obvious to us we were just
gonna do that for ourselves and as soon
as we did that it was immediately
obvious that every company in the world
was gonna want this and then something
then a business miracle happened this
never happens this is like the greatest
piece of business luck in the history of
business so far as I know we faced no
like-minded competition for seven years
it's unbelievable and we like I'll give
you it like when I launched amazon.com
in 1995 Barnes & Noble launched Barnes
and noble.com in 1997 two years that's
very clap that's very typical if you
invent something new we launched Kindle
Barnes and Noble launched Nook
two years later we launched Ecco
Google launched Google home two years
later when you pioneer if you're lucky
you get a two-year head start nobody
gets a seven year head start and so that
was incredible because and I think it
was a whole confluence of things I think
that the big established enterprise
software companies did not see Amazon as
a credible enterprise software company
and so we had this long run way to build
this incredible little feature-rich
and it's just so far ahead of all the
other products and services available to
do this work today and the team doesn't
let up there this team led by Andy Jesse
in Teresa's here so we're where you
Teresa Teresa's everybody here in
Washington knows Teresa but this team is
just they're killers I mean they're
they're just innovating on the product
side so rapidly and they're running
everything so well I'm incredibly proud
of them am Amazon itself has virtually
no competition in its online sales so
who is number two to you on online sales
there's virtually nobody our competition
is we're cut we where we elbow for
customers is in in the physical world so
in other words are that when people are
choosing between us there were about 40
percent of so of online sales but we're
like I don't know one low single-digit
percentage of retail sales so you know
97 98 percent of sales eighty-five
percent of sales is still or more is
still in the physical world so that's
where we face competition do you worry
that the u.s. government might come
along or where the European governments
say you're so big you're so powerful
that even though you haven't done
anything that is traditionally
monopolistic you're just too powerful
and some regulatory thing could come and
impair your business
well not here's here's where I think
about that I have I have a couple I get
asked this question frequently I thought
it was an original question now sorry
you do do that sometimes but that's not
one of them
and my view on this is very simple all
big institutions of any kind are going
to be and should be examined scrutinized
inspected governments should be
inspected government institutions big
educational institutions big nonprofits
big companies they're gonna get scrutiny
it's not personal it's kind of what we
as a society want to have happen so
that's that's one thing and I remind
people internally when when you know
that if they don't take this personally
that will lead you and a lot of wasted
energy this is just normal it's actually
healthy it's good we want to live in a
society where people are worried about
big institutions so that's okay and then
the second thing I think is we are so
inventive that whatever regulations are
promulgated or however it works that
will not stop us from serving customers
so to really you know I mean under all
kind of regulatory frameworks that I can
imagine customers are still going to
want low prices they're still going to
want fast delivery they're still going
to want big selection and so these
things are so fundamental those are the
things that we do so I would say that I
would say one more thing as long as
we're talking about big companies is
it's really important that that
politicians and others not they need to
understand the value that big companies
bring and not demonize or vilify
business in general or especially I'm
visiting well they shouldn't vilify big
companies and they certain to vilify
business in general for sure and the
reason is simple um there are certain
things only big companies can do you
know I've seen this the whole way I know
what Amazon could do when we were 10
people and I know what we could do when
we were a thousand people and I know we
could do her 10,000 I know we can do
today when were half a million and you
know give you a more vivid exam
this I love you know garage
entrepreneurs I invest in a lot of their
companies I know many of them but nobody
in their garage is gonna build an all
carbon-fiber fuel-efficient Boeing 787
it's not gonna happen
you need Boeing to do that if you like
your iPhone you need Apple to do that
you need Samsung to do that these are
things that you know that a
well-functioning they're the
entrepreneurial capitalism does those
kinds of things very well and then there
are market failures where nobody takes
care of the in you know this is you know
then you look towards philanthropy and
towards government so you need different
models for different things but you
definitely this world would be really
bad without Boeing and without Apple and
without Samsung and so on so one of your
passions is not just Amazon but its
outer space and space travel yellow
origin so you've started Blue Origin a
little bit in secret then you've made it
public you're putting a billion dollars
or more of your own personal capital
yeah but every year next year it'll be
more for the first time all right and
what you're going to get out of it are
we going to have people going into space
what is the yes this is this this is the
most important work I'm doing and I have
great conviction about that it is it's a
simple argument this is the best planet
we have now sent robotic probes to every
planet in this solar system believe me
this is the good one my friends who say
they want to move to Mars
I say look do me a favor move to the top
of Mount Everest for a year first
because that's a garden paradise
compared to Mars and so this gem of a
planet
we're finally as a species big enough to
really impact it and so you know for for
thousands and thousands of years earth
was really big and humanity was really
small that's not true anymore
and so we faced a choice as we move
forward we're gonna have to decide
whether we want a civilization of stasis
which we could do that's a real that's a
legitimate choice what does it mean it
means we will have to cap population
we will have to cap energy usage per
capita so people don't think about how
much energy they use your metabolic rate
as an animal you use about a hundred
watts of power so use about the same
amount of power as 100 watt light bulb
but your civilizational metabolic rate
as a human living in the developed world
so now this is a developed world figure
it's more than ten thousand watts of
power that's so much you're using when
you know because just going about your
life all these lights and driving your
cars and your vehicles and flying across
the country and whatever you're doing
that uses energy you're using on average
about 10,000 watts and the in the under
the less developed world by the way they
want to be where we are so there's gonna
be a lot of energy used energy usage for
a long long time has been growing at you
know a few percent a year even as
efficiency has grown very fast so we get
we're always getting more efficient and
even though we're getting more efficient
we keep using more energy and that's a
big part of the reason energy is so
fundamental that's a big part of the
reason that we have the you know we have
the lifestyle we have as the modern
civilization it's it's it takes a lot of
energy and so do you want that to
continue for your grandchildren or your
grandchildren's grandchildren in other
words I want my grandchildren's
grandchildren to be using way more
energy per capita than I am and I would
like to see not have a population cap I
wish there were a trillion humans in the
solar system then there would be a
thousand Einsteins and a thousand
Mozart's but we don't have that long if
you take current baseline global energy
usage and compounded it just a few
percent a year for just a few hundred
years the such as the power of
compounding you have to cover the entire
surface of the earth and solar cells
that is not going to happen so as a
result that we can be sure of that's not
going to happen so what will that lead
to it'll lead to stasis I don't even
think stasis is compatible with liberty
so there's all sorts of problems that we
are about to face because for the first
time in our civilizational history going
back thousands of years we're now big
compared to the size of the planet
we can fix that problem but we can fix
it in exactly one way by having by
moving out into the solar system and you
know and so my part my role in that is I
want to build reusable space vehicles
that's the heavy lifting Amazon was able
to get started with only a million
dollars in capital and in and because I
got to ride on the back of the credit
card system I got to ride on the back of
the pre-existing transportation network
that could deliver packages the
pre-existing telecommunications network
that could allow people to connect to
our servers all of that all that would
have been hundreds of billions that are
some capex but the heavy lifting was
already in place and that's what allowed
Facebook you think about it two kids in
a dorm room made this half trillion
dollar market cap company and you know
in an incredibly less than two decades
that's unbelievable
and so but that can't happen in space
there's no way two kids in a dorm room
can start a space company of any
significance because the price of
admission is so high and so I want to
build space infrastructure so that the
next generations of people can use that
infrastructure the same way I use UPS
and FedEx and so on to build Amazon and
that and and and so that's what Blue
Origin is all about so do you ultimately
want that to be your legacy or Amazon
and what would you like to be have as
your legacy world's oldest man that's a
that's a famous line I like but but but
the real thing is I you know it'll be
whatever it's going to be I'm gonna be
proud of the things I want to I I live
my life in such a way that when I in a
quiet moment of reflection and I'm
thinking back on my life that I have a
few regrets as possible and I don't you
know what what will my legacy be I have
no idea and I and I don't even want to
spend a lot of time think you intend to
give away the bulk of your fortune at
some point your life I tend to give away
I don't know how much of it I'm going to
give away I'm also going to invest a lot
of it in Blue Origin so for me I start
with mission and I think and
our we have so far figured out three
ways if you have a mission you can do it
with government you can do it with
nonprofit and you can do with for-profit
if you can figure out how to do it with
for-profit that has a lot of advantages
for many reasons one it's
self-sustaining so you know we don't
need you know here's my iPhone the last
thing we need is a company a non-profit
company making phones it turns out
there's a healthy competitive ecosystem
that likes to build these things there's
no market failure here if like the Gates
Foundation you look at you know room
temperature vaccines
there's no market for room-temperature
vaccines anybody who can afford a
vaccine can also afford a refrigerator
and so you have to start solving
problems like that that have no market
solution and then you get to other
things like the court system and the
military and so on you can't even figure
out a non-profit model so the really
answer your question is I'm gonna give
away a lot of money in a non-profit
model but I'm also gonna invest a lot of
money in something that any rational
investor would say is a really bad
investment which is Blue Origin but I
think it's super important and if I
can't make blue urchin a for-profit
thing maybe I'll convert it to
nonprofits um at some distant point in
the future but that would be I would be
I wouldn't want that I want I want it to
be a thriving ecosystem living long is
being healthy how do you stay in shape I
exercise which I enjoy so for me that's
not a not a problem and how do you deal
with the wealth with respect to your
children I mean how do you shield them
from the effects of this enormous wealth
I don't really shield them they're very
very mature they you know kids are smart
they know what's going on my oldest son
when he was 12 I asked him you know do
your classmates ever talk about her I'm
sure so what do you told them I said I
told them my life is normal to me and I
thought wow that's so profound because
everybody's life is normal to them we
all have that we all share that and when
you took your oldest son to college this
year you carried his books
the steps like everybody other yeah I'd
helped him move in to his dorm and with
my wife and it was bittersweet it was
also sad I didn't get sad till the day
before well let's just close with your
wife we haven't mentioned her yeah he's
a Princeton graduate she's a novelist
and she's been supportive of everything
you're doing and you would like to say
anything else about her I was waiting
for the question okay
we've been married 25 years she also is
a summa laude graduate from
Princeton we didn't meet there we met in
New York City at de Xiang Co where we
worked we got engaged after we got we
got we dated for three months we were
engaged for three months and then got
married so we our whole kind of dating
engagement period was only six months
long
it's I also I would like to take a
moment to talk about my parents if
that's okay you didn't ask me but I well
I would like to they're there here in
the audience and my parents are I thank
you guys
[Applause]
you know you get different gifts in life
and one of the great gifts I got is my
mom and dad he it's amazing my highest
admiration is withheld for those people
and we all know some of them I know
several them who had terrible parents
maybe they were abusive whatever it is
and some were those people who who so
admirably break that cycle and pull out
and and make that all work I did not
have that situation I was always loved
my parents loved me unconditionally and
and by the way it was pretty tough for
them you know she doesn't talk about it
that much but my mom had me when she was
17 years old she was a high school
student in Albuquerque New Mexico you
could ask her but I'm pretty sure that
wasn't cool in 1964 to be a pregnant mom
in high school in Albuquerque New Mexico
and in fact my grandfather who is
another incredibly important figure in
my wall in my life went to bat for her
and because the high school wanted to
kick her out you weren't allowed to be
pregnant in high school there and and my
grandfather said you can't kick her out
it's in public school she gets to go to
school and they negotiated for a while
and the principal finally said okay she
can stay and finish high school but she
can't do any extracurricular activities
and she can't have a locker and I know
and then and my grandfather being a very
wise man he was like done we'll take
that deal and so she finished high
school she had me and then she married
my my dad's my dad is my real dad not my
biological dad his name is Mike he's a
Cuban immigrant he
I came here as part of operation Pedro
pan and in fact was put up by a Catholic
mission not too far from here in
Wilmington Delaware and then got a
scholarship to to college and
Albuquerque which is where he met my mom
so I have a kind of a fairy tale story
and my grandfather possibly because I
mean I'm pretty sure because my parents
were so young starting at age 4 he would
take me every summer on his ranch and it
was the most spectacular from age 4 to
16 I basically spent every summer
working alongside him on the ranch he
was the most resourceful man he would he
did all his own veterinary work he would
even make his own needles he would pound
the wire with a oxy-acetylene torch and
and drill a little hole in it and
sharpen it and make a suture like make a
needle that he could suture up the
cattle with some of the cattle even
survived and he was a remarkable man and
a huge part of all of our lives but it
is you don't realize you know you just
look back and you know if you if you
don't have these parents you know it's
so important so it's just a really big
deal and my grandfather to use like a
second set of parents for me Jeff I want
to thank you for a very interesting
conversation and I want to offer you the
first honorary membership and Economic
Club of Washington I hope you'll join
our club when you decide ultimately to
spend more time here as we hope you will
I'd be delighted to accept they have a
few gifts for you
this is a copy of the original map of
the district Columbia as designed by
Pierre L'Enfant we hope you'll take this
as a gift we also have here a
leather-bound copy of the first book
ever sold on Amazon oh wow
fluid concepts in creative analogies
yeah the douglas hofstadter book you got
it right well I'm glad of that and look
at that that's really cool and courtesy
of Ted Leonsis one of the owners of
perhaps the Capitol signed by the
Stanley Cup team nice
so thank you for a great evening a great
conversation thank you
he is a super interviewer thank you
yeah
[Music]